README.md, before:

# Resources for *Ted Nelson's Vision* exhibit

Note: All links in this document can be accessed from: https://github.com/erangell/VCFEast2020

Photos of exhibit are in ExhibitPhotos directory.

The exhibit "Ted Nelson's Vision" is meant to encourage visitors to look at the concepts that Ted Nelson designed starting in the 1960's and compare them to hypertext technologies that were actually implemented in the 1990s and what we currently use today.  In the exhibit, the following are demonstrated:

* JOT (Juggler of Text): Ted's design for a word processor to help writers rearrange sentences and paragraphs in a smooth intuitive way.  It was initially designed for the Nova computer using teletype input, then adapted for the Apple II computer in 1982.  It was rewritten in Forth in 1986 by Steve Witham, and can be used on the Internet archive at: https://archive.org/details/jot_0.53_ted_nelson  The disk image used in the demo can be downloaded from the Apple2DiskImages subdirectory of this repository.

* Douglas Engelbart's Chord Keyboard: A homemade 5 finger chord keyboard for the left hand was constructed and connected to the Apple IIgs game port.  An Applesoft Basic program was written to demonstrate one way the chord keyboard can be used - by forming a nibble with the 4 fingers and strobing it in with the thumb.  A demo of Doug's keyboard can be seen here: https://youtu.be/t5WUBweOZA4  The disk image with the Applesoft program can be downloaded from the Apple2DiskImages subdirectory of this repository.

* Roger Wagner's Hyperstudio for the Apple IIGS: Ted Nelson said, "Wagner's HyperStudio was a paradigm challenge of a serious nature."  Hyperstudio was published in 1989 and was one of the first multimedia authoring software packages which included sampled audio and video (using an Apple Video Overlay card to play content from a LaserDisc).  The interface is similar to Hypercard.  For the exhibit, a stack was created that shows how graphic buttons can create a simple educational page and quiz.  A disk image of the stack can be downloaded from the Apple2DiskImages subdirectory of this repository.  A modern version of Hyperstudio demonstrates embedding of segments of video content on cards within stacks.  For more information, see: https://www.mackiev.com/hyperstudio/

* Hypercard for the Mac: This program opened up hypermedia authoring to many people, and enabled the creation of many creative media productions, which are being archived on the Internet Archive at: https://archive.org/details/hypercardstacks  

* Ted Nelson's Xanadu Space Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1yLNGUeHapA
A Windows 10 laptop running this demo is exhibited.  Visitors can explore the flight of documents in 3D with visible connections to sources.

* Ted Nelson's ZigZag Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n22A-Say7do
This demo runs on Mac or Windows using Java.  ZigZag is the generalization of a spreadsheet to multiple orthogonal (right-angle) dimensions.
 
* Example of thinking and desigining a solution using ZigZag dimensions: https://github.com/erangell/VCFEast2020/blob/master/ZigZagExample.pdf
 
* New Game In Town: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=72M5kcnAL-4
This video shows how an Edit-Decision-List document (which is an external file containing spans of content to display - unlike embedded markup) is used to display and link content from source documents.  It also demonstrates Transcopyright, which is Ted's idea of using micropayments for users to purchase segments of copyrighted content.

* Xanadu "Pale Fire" Demo: http://perma.pub/alpha/edward/openZRe7/fulfil
This is a demo of what are now coined "Ted Nelson Documents", which implement some features of Xanadu.  It shows how you can see related material from source documents (known as Transclusions) in their original context.

* Ted's Homepage: http://thetednelson.com/

* Ted's Youtube channel: https://www.youtube.com/user/TheTedNelson

* Videos related to this exhibit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_4TIqpwRhlk&list=PLOW4_Hp8_913P0JEQwcIohoXkzbw9ITXa

* The exhibit is powered by Roger Wagner's Hyperduino with MP3 add-on: https://hyperduino.com/mp3player.html and  https://hyperduino.com/

Books and publications by Ted can be ordered from: https://www.lulu.com/search?adult_audience_rating=00&keyWords=ted+nelson&page=1&pageSize=10&q=ted+nelson

Additional resources for further research: https://github.com/erangell/VCFEast2020/blob/master/resources.md

Commit message:

Added links for books and Nelswag

README.md, after:

# Resources for *Ted Nelson's Vision* exhibit

Note: All links in this document can be accessed from: https://github.com/erangell/VCFEast2020

Photos of exhibit are in ExhibitPhotos directory.

The exhibit "Ted Nelson's Vision" is meant to encourage visitors to look at the concepts that Ted Nelson designed starting in the 1960's and compare them to hypertext technologies that were actually implemented in the 1990s and what we currently use today.  In the exhibit, the following are demonstrated:

* JOT (Juggler of Text): Ted's design for a word processor to help writers rearrange sentences and paragraphs in a smooth intuitive way.  It was initially designed for the Nova computer using teletype input, then adapted for the Apple II computer in 1982.  It was rewritten in Forth in 1986 by Steve Witham, and can be used on the Internet archive at: https://archive.org/details/jot_0.53_ted_nelson  The disk image used in the demo can be downloaded from the Apple2DiskImages subdirectory of this repository.

* Douglas Engelbart's Chord Keyboard: A homemade 5 finger chord keyboard for the left hand was constructed and connected to the Apple IIgs game port.  An Applesoft Basic program was written to demonstrate one way the chord keyboard can be used - by forming a nibble with the 4 fingers and strobing it in with the thumb.  A demo of Doug's keyboard can be seen here: https://youtu.be/t5WUBweOZA4  The disk image with the Applesoft program can be downloaded from the Apple2DiskImages subdirectory of this repository.

* Roger Wagner's Hyperstudio for the Apple IIGS: Ted Nelson said, "Wagner's HyperStudio was a paradigm challenge of a serious nature."  Hyperstudio was published in 1989 and was one of the first multimedia authoring software packages which included sampled audio and video (using an Apple Video Overlay card to play content from a LaserDisc).  The interface is similar to Hypercard.  For the exhibit, a stack was created that shows how graphic buttons can create a simple educational page and quiz.  A disk image of the stack can be downloaded from the Apple2DiskImages subdirectory of this repository.  A modern version of Hyperstudio demonstrates embedding of segments of video content on cards within stacks.  For more information, see: https://www.mackiev.com/hyperstudio/

* Hypercard for the Mac: This program opened up hypermedia authoring to many people, and enabled the creation of many creative media productions, which are being archived on the Internet Archive at: https://archive.org/details/hypercardstacks  

* Ted Nelson's Xanadu Space Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1yLNGUeHapA
A Windows 10 laptop running this demo is exhibited.  Visitors can explore the flight of documents in 3D with visible connections to sources.

* Ted Nelson's ZigZag Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n22A-Say7do
This demo runs on Mac or Windows using Java.  ZigZag is the generalization of a spreadsheet to multiple orthogonal (right-angle) dimensions.
 
* Example of thinking and desigining a solution using ZigZag dimensions: https://github.com/erangell/VCFEast2020/blob/master/ZigZagExample.pdf
 
* New Game In Town: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=72M5kcnAL-4
This video shows how an Edit-Decision-List document (which is an external file containing spans of content to display - unlike embedded markup) is used to display and link content from source documents.  It also demonstrates Transcopyright, which is Ted's idea of using micropayments for users to purchase segments of copyrighted content.

* Xanadu "Pale Fire" Demo: http://perma.pub/alpha/edward/openZRe7/fulfil
This is a demo of what are now coined "Ted Nelson Documents", which implement some features of Xanadu.  It shows how you can see related material from source documents (known as Transclusions) in their original context.

* Ted's Homepage: http://thetednelson.com/

* Ted's Youtube channel: https://www.youtube.com/user/TheTedNelson

* Videos related to this exhibit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_4TIqpwRhlk&list=PLOW4_Hp8_913P0JEQwcIohoXkzbw9ITXa

* The exhibit is powered by Roger Wagner's Hyperduino with MP3 add-on: https://hyperduino.com/mp3player.html and  https://hyperduino.com/

Books and publications by Ted can be ordered from: https://www.lulu.com/search?adult_audience_rating=00&keyWords=ted+nelson&page=1&pageSize=10&q=ted+nelson

Another link for Ted's books: http://thetednelson.com/publications.php

For collectors or people who want limited edition versions of Ted's items: https://nelswag.com/

Additional resources for further research: https://github.com/erangell/VCFEast2020/blob/master/resources.md
